     Academic essay help ;

   Read more, engage , create more , ignore others for a while: so you can energized your brain
  And keep sharp . 
   How much should you read per day?
        There’s no fixed number of words to read
  Daily. , as it depends on individual goals time,
  And reading speed. Some people aim for a 
  Specific page count, like 25 pages a day, 
  While other focus on a set time commitment,
  Such as 20 minutes. Breaking it down to word
  Count , aim for 7000 words in 30 minutes.

   Coherence   
Chronological order - means arranging events
Or info. In the order they happen , from earliest
To latest, like a timeline- used in storytelling.

     This is a narrative paragraph
     topic sentence  - in order of time sequence

I  will never forget one day when I had to
Travel alone on the subway.

I was pregnant , and I had to go to an appointment at the hospital. 

My appointment was at 1:00 pm.

When my appointment ended , I got on the
Subway to go home.

I was exhausted and fell asleep on my way
Home.

Suddenly, I looked up and did not know where
I was.

Then I realized that I had fallen asleep..

That was why my surroundings looked 
unfamiliar.

It took me five more hours to get back to my
home.

My family hugged me and cried because I had
Been gone so long.

Followed directions/ accountability / reach a 
Goal yet/ 

 How to write an Academic Short Essay
Next Lesson —>
——————
-Learn about short essay
Structure and organization.
- Practice writing a thesis 
Statement. 

The Sentence

- A sentence must have at least one verb.
  Example: 
  My dog runs and chases a squirrel
  Our cat hunts and eats wild butterfly 
 The next door neighbor wakes up everyday
   At 4am.

- The verb expresses the action of the sentence.
- A sentence expresses a complete idea 
- A complete sentence must contain at least a main clause.
- A clause contains a subject and a verb.
  Example:
  When I saw Adam, I crossed the street.
  As I was crossing the street , i saw Adam.
 When I met Sally,  we talked and chatted about our current job and hobbies..

Independent clause;  
 - An independent clause is a group of words that
 Contain a subject and a verb , expresses a 
 Complete thought . Which can stand alone as a 
Sentence. 
    Example:
  I ate a grasshopper.
 I at a sandwich.

Dependent clause;
A dependent clause also known as a subordinate
Clause , also contains a subject and verb , but it
Can not stand alone and requires and 
Independent clause to form a complete thought.
   Example: 
 Because I was hungry, I at a sandwich
 Because I was late for work, I was fired.

The Simple Sentence
- A simple sentence contains only one main  
Independent clause, 
 Example:
 The dog is chasing its own tail.
The kitty is chasing a  butterfly

The compound Sentence
- A compound sentence contains at least 2
Main indenpent clauses.
-the main clauses are separated by a 
Comma, a conjunction, or a semicolon.
 Example
 This house is too expensive , and that house
 Is too small. 
My  house is too small; there is no toilet!

Run On Sentences
 What is a run-on sentence? A run-on sentence
Is an incorrect sentence. 
 -important puctuaction is missing.
 -run on sentence confuse the reader 
 Example:
   - Run on
  My dog runs fast he likes to chase animals
 In our garden. 
   - Correct
 My dog runs fast. He likes to chase animals
In the park.
 My dog runs, fast, and he likes to chase butterflies in the garden. 

Dependent Clauses
 - Their meaning is not complete
- Have subject and a verb, but no a complete 
idea.
- often start with a subordinating conjunction
 - before , when, after, while, because if

         Correct the run on sentence

I am the middle child in my family, but I wish
I were not sometimes.  My brother and sisters
Have an easier  life than I do. MY older brother
Is very responsible, and he is like a third 
Parent, so my sisters and I have to do what he
Tells us if our parents are not home. He also 
Has more freedom than we do.  He can go out
On the weekends and stay out late, but we 
Have to be at home by 10:00pm.  While my 
Brother has more freedom than I do, my 
Sisters have an easier life. They are twins, 
And  they get a lot of attention from our 
Parents.  My parents do not often spend time
With me, but they spend most of their time 
With my sisters. Because I am not the eldest,
But I do not have the same power as my 
Brother, but I do not get the extra attention 
Either. As a result, I think the middle child is
Not lucky at all. 

 Next Lesson 
 - Descriptive Organization
 - descriptive Essays
    Allright . IN our next lesson, we’ll talk about
Descriptive organization.  IN the next course 
We will talk about a descriptive short essay.
-See you next time. 

NOTE: 
 Are we consistently learning , so we can get 
More done during the daylight hours

  July 18 2025
         Stay Motivated Stay motivated stay 
        Motivated  
 
  Descriptive Essay 

  Body Paragraphs:
   -  contains most of the descriptive 
 -use adj, and adv. to make the experience
   More vivid./
- use prepositions and prepositions phrases to
  Clarify the location or position of subject in 
   - space 
 _ use comparison and similes to make the 
 - subject more familiar

 Bring the image to the mind of the reader

    Conclusion : 
   - gives. The writers final opinion 
 - about the desrcript.
  Restates the thesis statement
 In  differ. words.
  
                  Introduction   

    I have suffered a great deal because of a
Terrible addiction to pizza. Basically , I enjoy
Pizza too much. IN fact, I enjoy I so much . I
Won’t share it, not even with my mother.
People in my hometown of cabinas , Venezuela 
Laugh at me and call me the the pizza king of 
 Cabinas, but it is a name that I am proud of .
I have eaten pizza in many places, and none is
As good as the pizza of Cabinas. 

                   Body paragraph 

 The best place to eat pizza in Cabimas is the 
 Papa’s . Customers have to wait in line to get
 A table , but the wait is worth it.  Once they are
Seated , pizza lovers can choose from many
Varieties of pizza , such as pizza with shrimp 
And smoked oysters or pizza with pine nuts. 
And garlic , but my fav. Is the Margarita. First
 Of all, it is big. When the waiter puts it down 
In front of me, I feel happy because I will get 
Enough to eat. It smells of garlic , oil and spices. 
And it looks delicious too. The sauce oozes out
From under a layer of rich melted cheese. The 
Best part is the first bite. I sink my teeth. Into
Slightly crunchy crust, thick tomato sauce and 
Gooey cheese, and I am in heaven. I can eat 
Two of these pizza in one night, even though I 
Know I  will have a stomach ache afterwards.

                          Conclusion  

 Now that I am in the U.S. , I am trying difff, kinds
Of pizzas here. I have never seen so many diff.
Kinds of pizzas restaurants !  I want to try them
One by one.. So far, some of them are good , but
I am convinced that the best pizza in the is world
Is still at Papa’s restaurant which is located a 
Few blocks from the house where I used to live..
   
                      Conclusion  
July 20 2025

Now that I am living here in. The US , ii am trying
A  variety types of pizzas here, I have never seen
So many different types of pizza restaurant! I need to try them each one by one. So far, some of 
Them are very good, but I am agreed upon that
The ultimate pizza in the universe is still located 
 A few blocked from the house I used to live.
                  
  Dont control something  or a situation 
   simply. A waste of time 

 Why the welfare of some one’s else business 
 Is not your concern or problem.

First off , you can not control the people or you
Don’t have a say if you do not work , own have 
A interest in the situation. Also it will become a
Total waste of energy , time , resources, and 
More stress added to the current situation. 
 
Prepositional Phrases 

Prep + noun phrase or pronoun

Example 
The rowboat slowly sank with the water level until it 
Rested on the bay floor.

Showing direction: 
We took a boat out to the island.
The  idea was to float the boat over the fence wall.

Showing time:
At six in the morning
In that sweet moment
On Sunday 

Showing manner and attitude
 I stood up in defiance 
He pulled back in horror.
She was still in shock

Adding details to sentences 

Add info about looks, sound, smell ,etc of something
Use nouns adj, adv, and verbs to add details

Details should be specific and clear to create a picture
In reader mind


Adding details to sentences 
 General  / detailed 

The crabs were good .
The crabs were tender and and sweet with salty taste
He bought some fruit. 
He bought some sweet , juicy strawberries .
She walked to the door .
She tiptoed to the door.
She walk the the door.
She walked quickly and silently to the door.

      Similies 
Use similes to make  something seem more familiar 
Similes make ideas easier to under stand
Similes can express feelings 
Similes are extensively used in literature and poetry
 The sun was like a glowing ball of fire 
 My love is like a red , red rose. 



